## Coursera - Getting and Cleaning Data

Project of the course [Getting and Cleaning Data](https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-cleaning)

## Project information

The purpose of the project is to to collect, work with, and clean a data set, so that it can be used to prepare tidy data for later analysis.

The data set used in the project represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Here are the data for the project:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

Given this data set, an R script was created that:

1. Merges the training set and the test set to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

In this repository, you will find the following files:

1. run_analysis.R: the R script used to proccess the original data set and create the final data file
2. Readme.md: this readme file
3. CodeBook.md: a file describing the data, the variables and the transformations performed by the script
4. averageByActivityAndSubject.txt: the final data file generated by the script

## Running the project

To successfully run the project, you must download the data from link above and extract the zip file in a directory. This directory should be your R working directory.

You should also have the R packages `dplyr` and `readr` installed, as they are used by the script.

Given these prerequisites, you can execute the run_analysis.R script. By the end of its execution, a file called averageByActivityAndSubject.txt will be generated at the working directory.

